Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a horror and sci-fi
film called "Annihilation."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Lena, a biologist, and an army veteran, mysteriously
survives a covert operation that left some
of her colleagues dead.
Upon her return, she is brought to a government
facility and interrogated by a man wearing
a hazmat suit.
Lomax, the man questioning Lena, wonders how
she survived for two months when she only
had food rations for two weeks.
Lena says she doesn't remember eating at all
during the mission.
She tries to recall more details of the expedition
as Lomax continues to probe for more answers.
Some years before the mission, a glowing asteroid
entered the Earth's atmosphere and landed
in a lighthouse on the southern coast of the
U.S.
As soon as it hit the ground, it started emitting
a glowing smoke that expanded steadily.
Before the covert mission, Lena had been working
as a biology professor at the Johns Hopkins
University.
During a class, she teaches her students how
a single cell continually splits and replicates
itself until it forms every living thing on
Earth.
After the class, a male colleague named Daniel
invites her to a party for the weekend.
She turns him down with an excuse.
Daniel reminds her that it has been a year
since she lost her husband, Kane, and tells
her that it wouldn't be wrong for her to enjoy
some time with friends.
At home, Lena reminisces the pleasant times
she spent with Kane while she prepares to
paint the bedroom.
Kane, a Green Beret, had been missing since
he went away on a secret mission.
As Lena starts to paint, a man enters the
house and slowly makes his way up to the bedroom.
As he reaches the door, Lena sees him and
realizes that Kane has finally come home.
She runs over to him and cries as she hugs
him.
Later on, Lena starts asking Kane about his
last mission, but he says he's unsure where
it was.
Lena continues to press him for answers, but
he keeps saying he doesn't know.
When she asks how he got home, Kane just implied
that he found himself outside their room.
Before Lena could ask him any more questions,
he tells her that he's starting to feel sick.
Kane is loaded into an ambulance, but government
agents intercept them on the way to the hospital.
Lena struggles as the operatives drag her
away, so they sedate her while others take
Kane out of the ambulance.
When Lena wakes up, she finds herself in a
government facility known as Area X.
A psychologist named Dr. Ventress enters her
room and asks her what she knows about Kane's
mission.
Ventress, who works for an organization called
the Southern Reach, informs her that Kane
is also at the facility, but he is severely
ill.
Lena surmises that the illness might be caused
by radiation or a virus and offers to help
Ventress find out what's wrong with her husband.
Ventress shows Lena the mysterious glowing
zone they call "The Shimmer" and explains
that none of the people who have ventured
into the area have returned.
So far, The Shimmer has only affected sparsely
populated swamplands, but the doctor fears
that it will keep expanding until it swallows
up whole cities and even states.
Kane is the only one who managed to get out
of The Shimmer, but he is slowly dying due
to multiple organ failures.
Ventress hints to Lena that she might not
be allowed to go home because of what she
knows about their covert operations.
Lena tells the psychologist that she wants
to stay with her husband.
Later that night, a team of scientists introduce
themselves to Lena and informs her that they're
all scheduled to go into The Shimmer in a
few days with Ventress.
All previous expeditions had been military
personnel, but this time, the team will comprise
four female scientists.
Lena asks the women what they think happened
with the previous expeditions.
Anya Thorensen, a paramedic from Chicago,
suggests that the people who went inside the
zone were probably killed by something, or
they went crazy and killed each other.
Cass Sheppard, a geomorphologist, mentions
that one military personnel was able to return
from the zone.
Lena falls silent and doesn't let them know
that the man who made it out was her husband.
The next day, Lena meets up with Ventress
and lets her know that she wants to join her
team.
She tells the doctor that she refrained from
telling the other members about her husband
because it might complicate things.
The five women soon enter into The Shimmer,
but they wake up to find themselves in a camp
without any recollection of what they did
after they went in.
They deduce from their remaining food supplies
that they've been inside for at least three
days.
Josie Radek, a physicist, notifies her teammates
that all their communications equipment cannot
send any signals out of The Shimmer.
However, other devices, such as the camera,
are working fine.
She checks the compass and finds out that
it is also malfunctioning.
They decide to head south until they reach
the coast, using only the sun and their watches
to point them in the right direction.
Along the way, they come across a hut covered
with various flowers that seem to be of different
species.
Lena, however, notices that they're all growing
from the same branch.
She concludes that all those flowers are from
the same plant, and it has constantly been
mutating.
All of a sudden, something grabs Radek and
tries to pull her underwater.
They pull Radek to safety and look around
for the creature that attacked her.
A giant alligator soon emerges from the water
and starts crawling toward them.
As it gets close to Thorensen, Lena shoots
it continuously until it stops crawling.
When the reptile dies, Lena inspects its teeth
and discovers that it has mutated.
Lena tells Lomax that they saw other mutated
animals on their way to the coast back in
the interrogation room.
Lomax suggests that they could be hallucinations,
but Lena insisted that they all saw the same
things during the expedition.
With the boats they found near the hut, the
team makes their way out of the swamp.
Lena and Sheppard ride together and talk about
their past as they row.
Lena reveals that she served in the army for
seven years and met her husband there.
However, as Sheppard asks more questions,
Lena lies and tells her that her husband was
K.I.A.
Sheppard asserts that all of them decided
to go on the expedition because they're dealing
with some problem in their lives.
Anya is recovering from an addiction, while
Josie had probably tried to take her own life,
as indicated by the scars on her forearm.
No one seems to know much about Ventress,
but she doesn't appear to have any family
or friends.
Sheppard reveals that she has lost her daughter
to leukemia, and she's never been the same
since.
The group arrives in Fort Amaya, which served
as the headquarters of the Southern Reach
before it became part of The Shimmer.
Lena sees more mutated organisms on the walls,
noting that they appear to be malignant.
Inside the building, they notice that the
previous expedition has used the place as
a base.
As the team continues to investigate, they
find a memory card and insert it into Radek's
camera.
In the video, Kane cuts the stomach of his
teammate open to reveal a worm-like organism
moving around his stomach.
Thorensen concludes that members of the previous
expedition went crazy and killed each other,
but Radek thinks there was a creature inside
the man's stomach.
In another part of the building, they see
a corpse merged with a growing colony of fungi.
Radek says she doesn't want to stay at the
base any longer, but Ventress argues that
they have no choice because it's getting dark
outside.
That night, Lena recalls how her husband departed
abruptly for the covert operations, abandoning
their plans to spend time together in the
countryside.
Unable to fall asleep, she checks the cell
samples she gathered earlier and sees them
splitting rapidly.
She then goes to the outpost, where Ventress
is keeping watch so that she could replace
her.
After going over their plans for the next
day, Lena asks the psychologist why her husband
volunteered for the mission.
Ventress suggests that he must have joined
because of his self-destructive instinct,
which she believes is coded into the human
genes.
The two women are suddenly startled by a loud
noise coming from the outside.
Sheppard, who was also awakened by the sound,
comes over to investigate.
While they look around the fort, a large animal
approaches Sheppard from behind and grabs
her.
With Sheppard gone, Radek and Thorensen insist
on heading back to the facility.
Ventress, however, is determined to continue
the journey to the lighthouse and find out
what's causing The Shimmer.
Lena hints that she also wants to go back,
but she argues that they can get out of The
Shimmer by following the coast until they
reach the perimeter wall.
She points out that it had taken them six
days to get to the fort, but it will only
take two more days to reach the coast.
In the interrogation room, Lomax accuses Lena
of lying to her teammates because she wanted
to continue the journey to the lighthouse.
He contends that Lena didn't know whether
it would be safe to move forward, but she
made the decision as if she did.
Lena argues that it was Ventress who made
the decision.
Lomax, however, points out that Ventress is
sick with cancer and had no intention of coming
back.
As they head to the coast, they find Sheppard's
shoe on the ground and decide to look for
her.
Lena goes deep into the woods and comes across
two deer that appear to be moving in unison.
As she continues the search, she sees Sheppard's
mangled body under a tree.
The team decides to stay at an abandoned house
as the sky starts to set.
Out in the yard, they find plants that are
shaped like humans beings.
Radek starts conveying her theory that the
signals inside The Shimmer aren't blocked
but scrambled.
She suggests that The Shimmer is not just
refracting light and radio signals but DNA
as well.
That night Lena recalls her affair with Daniel
when her husband was away.
Lena fears that her husband already knows
about their illicit relationship and tells
Daniel that it won't ever happen again.
As the team slept, Thorensen discovers the
picture of Kane in Lena's necklace and attacks
her.
Lena wakes up to find herself and her two
other teammates tied up to a chair.
Realizing that Lena had been lying to the
team, Thorensen starts to doubt whether an
animal killed Sheppard.
She recounts her theory that members of the
previous mission were either killed by something
or went crazy and killed themselves.
She noted that she had seen her fingerprints
moving earlier, suggesting that she might
be going mad.
As she threatens to cut Lena with a knife,
they hear Sheppard's voice outside the house.
Thorensen runs outside as she hears Sheppard
repeatedly yelling for help.
The next thing the team hears is the roar
of a bear.
The mutated bear finds its way into the room
and walks toward the women, who are still
tied up.
As the bear gets close, it starts imitating
Sheppard's voice.
Wounded from the bear's attack, Thorensen
gets back in the house and tries to kill the
bear, but the animal tears her apart.
Radek breaks free from her chair and shoots
the bear dead while it attacks Lena.
Ventress fears that she wouldn't make it to
the lighthouse if they wait any longer, so
she decides to go there independently.
Lena finds Radek out in the yard and tells
her that she found mutations in her blood.
Radek concludes that the mutations will soon
be inside everyone.
She checks the roots and leaves that are starting
to grow in her arm and starts walking away
from Lena.
Lena tries to run after her, but Radek disappears
when she reaches the garden with human-shaped
plants.
Now on her own, Lena finally reaches the coast
and sees numerous crystal trees growing outside
the lighthouse.
Inside the building, she sees a charred skeleton
sitting in front of a camera.
When she played back the video, she sees Kane
sitting down, telling a person behind the
camera that he is starting to doubt his own
identity.
Fearing that he might be losing his mind,
Kane prepares to detonate a phosphorous grenade.
Kane tells the mysterious person to find Lena
then pulls the pin from the explosive.
As he burns to death, a man behind the camera
walks toward Kane.
When the man turns around, Lena sees that
he looks identical to her husband.
After turning off the camera, Lena starts
hearing voices coming from a hole in the ground.
She follows the voice and sees Ventress, who
appears to be mutating.
The psychologist says that the mutation is
already inside her, and it will continue to
expand until it swallows up everything.
She warns that their bodies will be broken
up into small parts until they're all annihilated.
Ventress then raises her head, and light bursts
out of her mouth until her body completely
disintegrates.
Lena stands by and watches as the light that
came out of Ventress transforms into different
shapes.
Moments later, the unknown life form absorbs
blood from a cut on Lena's face and starts
morphing into a humanoid.
Lena shoots the figure and tries to escape
from it, but she sees the entity, which starts
to mimic her every move when she gets out
of the hole.
When she tries attacking it, the entity fights
back.
She runs to the door, hoping to get out of
the lighthouse, but the creature holds on
to her until she gives up.
With the entity still imitating her movements,
Lena finds another phosphorous grenade on
the ground.
After pulling out the pin, she hands it over
to the humanoid, which has started to copy
her appearance.
Lena leaves the lighthouse as the entity burns
and lights up other mutated organisms around
it.
The Shimmer starts to disappear when the humanoid
spreads the fire inside the hole.
Back at the facility, Lomax asks Lena if she
found out what the entity wanted.
Lena says that she doesn't know, but she asserts
that it is not trying to destroy anything.
It was only mutating everything that it finds
to make something new.
Lomax informs her that everything at the lighthouse
has been burned to cinders.
After The Shimmer disappeared, Kane's condition
stabilized and returned to normal.
Lena pays a visit to her husband and asks
him whether he's Kane.
He says, "I don't think so," and proceeds
to ask her if she's Lena.
She hugs him and doesn't answer.
As they continue to embrace, both of their
eyes start to change colors and glow.